♪
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
Previously on Star
Trek: Discovery...
This clue is the
most important thing
in the Federation right now.
We have to get the Progenitors'
power and keep it safe.
TILLY: Remember how
scared you were to
be on the bridge when we went to
Halem'no? You did a great job.
In general. you're
really finding your way.
and you shouldn't be
afraid to take on more.
Thanks. Teach.
ZORA: I've found a match
for the phrase inscribed
upon the metal card.
Labyrinths of the Mind
is the title of a
Betazoid manuscript.
Has anyone else ever
come looking for this?
Our records show
you are the first.
AVATAR BOOK: Your consciousness has
been transported into a mindscape.
- BURNHAM: Book?
- My form was generated from your subconscious.
- So why do you look like you?
- You tell me.
- We talked earlier and...
- And what?
We didn't fix it. That's why
my subconscious picked you.
because I want to fix
it. but I don't know how.
AVATAR BOOK: There's a
crystal in viewing room seven.
Once you wake up. just go in.
get it. and break it open.
Clue's hidden inside.
There's one more thing
you need to know first.
about something inside
your final destination.
RUHN: Give me the clues.
or more blood will
be on your hands.
Stand by for transport.
Discovery out.
TILLY: Coordinates to the
Progenitors' technology.
Get a scan of that
map to Stamets.
We've received an item from
Discovery via transport.
Materialize it.
- Is the object authentic?
- It is.
- They're locking onto us.
- Evasive maneuvers.
We're gonna vent and
jump simultaneously.
Primarch. we've confirmed debris
and traces of warp plasma.
Discovery has been destroyed.
BURNHAM: Commander
Asha. where are we?
ASHA: 22 light
years off-target.
Commander Stamets?
Stamets [over comms]: The
spore drive malfunctioned.
We cannot jump again
until it is fixed.
Would your Scion
be this selfish?
He left for a human.
He loves me. but he
left because of you.
Primarch. don't.
[grunts]
I am the wife of L'ak.
True ruler of the Imperium.
- Long will he reign.
- CREW: Long will he reign.
ALL: Long will he reign.
[overlapping chatter]
My dearest T'Rina.
it is...
good to see you again.
And you. Saru.
I bring these as a gift
from the planet Elpanah.
They believe them to
be good luck for those
with impending nuptials.
They are lovely. Thank you.
If I may. I cannot help but
notice concern in your demeanor.
That and all of the
activity... Is something amiss?
As you were already in transit
from your diplomatic mission.
it was deemed best to
wait to tell you directly.
Discovery came into conflict
with a Breen vessel.
- Oh.
- They have sustained damage.
but no casualties.
- Well. that is a relief.
- That said.
the situation has
become complex.
President Rillak has convened
an emergency meeting.
She requires us both.
RILLAK: Primarch Ruhn is dead.
Moll killed him.
The news has spread faster
than we anticipated.
Within a matter of
hours. the remaining five
Primarchs have become aware.
They smell blood in the water.
I have just returned
from planets
near the border of Breen space.
They are already on edge.
The potential ramifications
of this development
could cause panic.
RILLAK: We'll have to deal
with that another day.
Right now. we have more
immediate concerns.
Our intelligence indicates
that one of the five
Primarchs. Tahal.
intends to take Ruhn's
soldiers for herself
in order to strengthen her bid
for the throne of the Imperium.
She has mobilized her fleet
to pursue his dreadnaught.
which is already on
its way to the location
of the Progenitors' technology.
That is where Discovery
will travel as well.
once damage is repaired.
Yes.
RILLAK: Discovery needs
to secure the technology
and jump away before
Tahal gets there.
If she learns that we're after
the literal power of creation...
well. I think we all know
she won't let that one go.
Discovery barely
escaped one dreadnaught.
Were they to face
Tahal's entire fleet...
Are we able to send
reinforcements?
Admiral Vance is mobilizing
every ship in the sector.
but most won't make it in time.
Excuse me. Madam President.
Moll's dreadnaught just
exited a transwarp tunnel.
They've picked up time.
They'll be at the coordinates
of the Progenitors'
technology in 15 minutes.
Notify Discovery. They
need to get moving now.
SARU [over comms]: I do wish
I had better news. Captain.
And here I was. hoping you
were calling to say hi.
SARU: I trust you will find a
way to succeed. and I assure you
we will do all we
can to prevent Tahal
and her fleet from
joining the conflict.
I know you will.
Saru. Thank you.
We're almost done with repairs.
and we'll be on our way soon.
Good luck. Michael.
And. please. stay safe.
Damn right I will.
I got a wedding to go to
when this is all over.
Hey. we need to go.
Moll and the Breen are
almost at the coordinates.
Any other good news?
Primarch Tahal may
be coming. too.
Okay.
Well. basic power
and auxiliary systems
are back online.
Lights are a good sign. What
about the other repairs?
Left nacelle's fully functional.
right's almost there.
Shields are in progress.
What about the spore drive?
That's a different story.
Okay. w-we can jump. but I just
can't guarantee that we'll land
precisely where we intend to.
How "not precisely"
are we talking?
Well. nav system was damaged
during Ruhn's attack.
and Book is helping.
Yeah. shouldn't
you be in sickbay?
Culber patched me up.
You know me. couldn't just
sit around relaxing. could I?
Um. we've improved the
margin of error considerably.
but I would feel
much more confident
in our landing accuracy
if we could have
another hour and a half?
Not gonna happen. Commander.
No. we need to jump right now.
Do your best.
- Coordinates are set. Captain.
- BURNHAM: Thank you.
How's it looking
out there. Tilly?
Long-range scans are
unclear... I'm not sure why...
but I can tell it's in an area
of gravitational turbulence.
so we'll need to be careful.
Discovery. this is
Captain Burnham.
Everyone to stations.
Prepare to jump. and
expect a hard landing.
The Breen may already
be on site. so eyes up.
Commander Jemison.
get us cloaked.
Aye. Captain.
Okay. let's jump.
[all grunting]
Red alert. Stamets.
where are we?
Okay. I got us as
close as I could
with the margin of error
and the nav system damage.
What the hell's happening
to the viewscreen?
BURNHAM: Those are
gravity distortions.
Well. we've landed in the
accretion disk of a black hole.
- Captain.
- ASHA: At this distance.
I should be able to get us out.
Asha. we're getting
closer to the red zone.
It's pulling us in. I
don't understand why.
Engineering. we're
gonna need more power.
STAMETS [over comms]:
I'm working on it.
Open the plasma injectors.
- keep them locked at full.
- Got it.
And. uh. we should override
the tolerance limiter.
Which relay?
- Over there.
- On the left?
- Yeah.
- Uh-huh.
STAMETS [over comms]: I'm
giving you everything I have
unless you pull from the cloak.
BURNHAM: Rayner?
No. we can't risk that.
Maintain cloaking.
Commander Asha.
what is our status?
Gravitational pull's
still too strong. It
doesn't make sense.
TILLY: No. it's
because it's not
one black hole. it's-it's
two black holes.
It's a. it's a binary system.
And they're-they're
primordial black holes.
which is in...
that's interesting.
- Tilly.
- TILLY: Yeah. no. Yes. Uh...
If we can change our
heading to 320 mark seven
and move closer to
the other black hole.
we can use its gravity
to pull us away.
That-that. plus our. uh.
engines. that should be enough.
- Good thinking. Lieutenant.
- Do it. Asha.
Everyone hold on tight.
ZORA: Warning.
Significant gravitational
shearing detected.
ASHA: The second black
hole is coming into range.
Tilly...
TILLY: It's gonna
work. It'll work.
ASHA: And we're clear.
[sighs]
[exhales]
JEMISON: Hey.
Drinks on me tonight.
It's "tonight" somewhere.
Do we have to wait?
[laughs] Nice work. everybody.
Rhys. any sign of
the dreadnaught?
No. Seems we beat them here.
RAYNER: Can't be by much.
Asha. how far are we
from target coordinates?
Approximately 60.000
kilometers. sir.
- Set a course.
- Aye. Captain.
Lieutenant Tilly. now
that we're more in range.
what can you tell
us about the target?
Coordinates are in the
Lagrange point of
the two black holes.
which means that the
Progenitors' tech
has been in gravitational
equilibrium since...
I mean. the...
these black holes. they
predate everything else
in the galaxy. so...
So since they put them there.
Can we get it onscreen?
That's odd. Nothing's
registering on scans.
but if we filter out all
the environmental debris.
seems like what we're
looking for is...
this.
There it is.
Any idea what's inside of it?
TILLY: No. Spectral analysis
shows the structure is composed
of a duranium alloy. which
is impenetrable to scans.
Sounds deliberate.
Yeah. if we were
any further away.
we wouldn't even
know it was there.
but it's. uh. it's about
the size of a small shuttle.
and it was made
approximately 800 years ago.
So it was built at the same
time the clue trail was laid.
The scientists
must've constructed it
to hide the
Progenitors' technology.
Until the "worthy
seeker" arrived.
RHYS: Power of creation.
Thought it'd be... bigger.
BURNHAM: The tech
has to be in there.
We have to get it on board.
Captain. we have a
warp signal incoming.
It's Ruhn's dreadnaught.
- How long till they're here?
- Right now.
RHYS: Weapons ready
if we need them.
LINUS: They're
taking the structure.
- Asha.
- I-I can't get us there in time.
Can you stop the
tractor beam from here?
We'd have to drop our cloak.
It doesn't matter. Too late.
The Breen have it.
[sighs]
So. what... what do we do now?
We're gonna find a
way to get it back.
♪
[original Star Trek theme plays]
Okay. we know that Moll's
holding the structure
inside the Breen shuttle
bay. and my guess is.
it won't take her long
to open it. So. Tilly?
Initial scans of the
object show this.
It appears to be a small
opening or access point.
If you compare it with the
map of clues we gathered...
It's a keyhole. And
Moll has the key.
Yeah. but it's not enough
alone to gain access
to the Progenitors' technology.
In the mindscape. I was told
that there would be another
obstacle inside of it.
and I got information
on how to beat it.
Moll doesn't have that.
What information. exactly?
A phrase:
"Build the shape of the
one between the many."
That's... cryptic.
I trust it'll make
sense when it needs to.
BOOK: We do have
another advantage.
They think we're dead.
so that buys us time
if we can figure out how
to get the structure back.
Well. that's why we're all here.
Stamets. what are our options?
Um... limited. To
get the structure.
we'll need to beam it
out. but we can't do that
unless we take down
the shields first.
And even then. locking
onto it will be tricky.
We'd need to be in
extremely close proximity.
We'd be destroyed before
we got anywhere close
to the shuttle bay.
What about a transpo-lock?
W-We used them when
I was in the E.D.F..
Mars had a lot of interference.
Point being is. if we
attach it to the structure.
we can. uh. lock on
and beam out instantly
- once we take down shields.
- STAMETS: Yes.
Good. that's good. [chuckles]
RAYNER: Problem is. we can't
do any of that unless we
can get ourselves on board
the dreadnaught.
Then that's what
we'll have to do.
We'll need two teams.
Our scan data from the
run-in with the Breen
shows there's a gap
in the shield coverage
right at the exhaust
port. That's a weakness.
and that's where we infiltrate.
We'll fly a shuttle in. and
we'll beam aboard from there.
Alpha Team will
go to the bridge.
Hack into systems and stand
by to take down shields
for the rest of the ship.
while Bravo Team goes
to the shuttle bay.
Once inside. they'll find a way
to attach the transpo-lock
onto the structure.
Then Alpha Team
will drop shields.
and we'll beam both
teams and the structure
back to Discovery.
This is insane.
BURNHAM: Maybe.
but it could work.
And it is our only other option.
- I agree.
- BOOK: Okay.
um. using the exhaust
ports is clever.
I'll give you that. but...
Good. because you're
gonna pilot us in.
TILLY: Okay. even if
we can get on board.
Breen programming
code is base-duodeca
- and hacking that is incredibly complex.
- ADIRA: I-I can handle that.
I analyzed the code
behind the Breen
shield-tunneling technology.
I-I-I know my way
around it already.
Are you asking to go on
this mission. Ensign?
- Yes.
- What?
- I am.
- STAMETS: No.
I-I can do the hacking.
Maybe not as quickly. but...
Speed will be crucial here.
What do you think?
I think they can do it.
BURNHAM: Then it's settled.
You'll be on Alpha Team.
and I'll send Commander
Rhys for security backup.
Book and I will
be on Bravo Team.
And Rayner. you have the conn.
Tilly. I'll ask that you serve
as my acting first officer.
Yes. sir. Thank
you very... Good.
BOOK: Okay. not to be a
stickler for details. but.
once we're on board.
how the hell do we plan to move
around on a Breen-infested ship?
In plain sight.
Scans of soldiers
from the Archive
will let us replicate
Breen suits.
We'll just need to
add translation tech.
Breen culture is
rigidly hierarchical.
so as long as we look the part
and don't draw
attention to ourselves.
we shouldn't be challenged.
For the record...
it's still insane.
We leave in ten.
[door whooshes open]
Take down the quarantine field.
Is there any way of
knowing what's inside?
Our scientists report that
the metallic composition
make internal scans impossible.
Then we'll just have to open it.
[electronic garble]
Your Scion will reward
you for your service.
♪
[electronic garble]
MOLL: What the hell just
happened? Where'd he go?
[electronic garble]
MOLL: In my language!
What are we looking
at? What do you know?
Our soldier no longer
registers on scans.
This appears to be an
extra-dimensional gateway.
To where. we cannot yet say.
The Progenitors' tech must
be on the other side. then.
I would suggest you return to
the bridge until our scientists
can determine if it
is safe to enter.
[electronic garble]
Something I have to do first.
A portable pattern buffer?
Once we find the tech.
learning how to use
it could take time.
This'll preserve
L'ak's body until then.
[whispering]: I
will bring you back.
[breathing deeply]
Not long ago. I was the
one going into the unknown
on the Ten-C planet. and
you were wishing me luck.
It's my turn. I
guess. [chuckles]
I'm proud of you.
Also nervous. Very nervous.
I... Look. I am gonna be fine.
and I will see you
both on the other side.
- [computer chimes]
- ZORA: Attention. please.
Ensign Tal to shuttle bay.
Okay. Here we go.
The away team is prepared
for launch. Commander.
[claps] On your
toes. everyone.
Mission's up.
Is it just me or does he never
sit in the captain's chair?
Avoids it like the
plague. We've all noticed.
JEMISON: Shuttle is leaving
shuttle bay in three.
two. one.
BOOK: Getting close
to our entry point.
Raising shields now.
Wait. we're going in
there while it's firing?
It-It'll be at least 3.000
degrees Kelvin in there.
But the heat will camouflage
our transporter signals
so we can beam in undetected.
How long will shields
hold at that temperature?
About 60 seconds.
- And after that?
- The shuttle burns to a crisp.
Glad I asked.
Our sensors indicate we're
entering the exhaust field.
BOOK: Okay. 60
seconds starts...
now!
SHUTTLE COMPUTER: Warning.
Thermal radiation is
exceeding recommended levels.
55 seconds. 54.
Are we in position?
Not yet.
The exhaust fields are
a bit more than I
expected. Then again.
Then again. the last time I did
something like this
was on my ship.
50 seconds.
Okay. you're
stressing me out here.
BURNHAM: Yeah. well.
I thought you might
want to know how long before
we're deep-fried. 45 seconds.
We're good. Ready to beam.
ADIRA: No! No. we're not.
Our-our-our transportation
radius is being limited...
Science later. problem now.
There are two Breen life signs
right where we have to beam in.
Why can't we beam
someplace else?
Science later. problem
now. We just can't.
SHUTTLE COMPUTER: Warning. Hull
breach imminent in ten seconds.
- You said we had more time.
- Ensign Tal?
- Eight. seven...
- The life signs aren't moving.
- Six. five...
- All right. we'll figure it out.
Helmets on. Now. now. now.
Three. two. one.
[electronic garble]
Stay calm.
ADIRA [over comms]:
What are they saying?
BURNHAM [over comms]:
Give it a minute.
Our suit will start
translating in real time.
I said justify yourselves.
- Captain?
- BURNHAM: I've got it.
You pathetic achworm!
[electronic garble]
Well played.
Nobody likes a disgusted Scion.
Well. we all know what we're
here to do. Let's get to it.
ALL: Aye. Captain.
I send this message
to the eminent Breen Primarch
Tahal of the third flight.
This is President Laira Rillak
of the United
Federation of Planets.
I request an immediate
audience on a matter
of utmost urgency.
I await your reply.
Message was. once
again. received.
Still no response.
Then she is choosing
to ignore us.
Damn it. We need some way
of stopping her fleet.
With its Pathway drive. the
Mitchell could intercept.
We can't risk
escalating this further.
The sudden arrival of
a Federation starship
could be perceived as
an act of aggression.
What if it were not a starship.
but a relatively
harmless shuttle?
One was outfitted for testing
at the start of the
Pathway program.
A shuttle wouldn't
be remotely capable
of engaging her entire fleet.
Yet it could force the
face-to-face dialogue
needed to slow her down.
or alter her course.
If the gesture is misunderstood.
it could be a suicide mission.
If we wish to aid Discovery.
it is our best option.
GREER: Madam President.
if the effort were to fail.
we would need you here to
negotiate with the Breen.
I'll need to send a delegate
who can speak on my behalf.
I will draw up a list
of suitable candidates.
If I may.
uh. given my experience
with both tactical
and diplomatic missions.
as well as the fact that
it is my former ship at risk...
I would like to volunteer.
Begin preparations.
I'll inform the admiral.
You'll need to
leave immediately.
BOOK: Disguises seem to
be holding up so far.
BURNHAM: Mm-hmm.
[electronic garble]
BREEN SOLDIER: [electronic
garble] joining the sarkaress...
He's using words that
aren't in the database.
A sarkaress is a
Breen feast day.
Okay. What do we say back?
[electronic garble]
joining the sarkaress.
Of course we will join.
[electronic garble]
Thank you. xenoanthropology.
The gift that keeps on giving.
BOOK: You good?
BURNHAM: What makes
you think I'm not?
BOOK: Cock of the head when I just
asked you that. Dead giveaway.
Worried about the mission?
BURNHAM: No. it's...
Come here.
There's something
I need to tell you.
Now is not an ideal time. but...
[sighs]
In the mindscape.
I had to look at some
things about myself.
About us.
Why I let us drift apart.
Okay.
I felt like I failed.
And it was just
easier to turn away.
I've been meaning to
say that I'm sorry.
You deserved better.
I did the same
thing. Same reason.
I'm sorry. too.
[footsteps approaching]
BURNHAM: Heads up. Looks like
there's about to be a shift change.
- BURNHAM: We should go.
- BOOK: Yeah.
Our scientists have
been unable to determine
what's inside the gateway.
They believe the only
way to get reliable data
is to send someone inside
with the proper equipment.
Choose your most
trusted soldier.
Captain.
we're on the bridge.
And Moll is here.
BURNHAM [over comms]: All right.
find a console and get to work.
RHYS: There. that
symbol on his arm.
he's the lowest ranking soldier.
That's our mark.
Everyone always
picks on the ensign.
There's a malfunction
at your station.
You must vacate it
while we fix it.
That's an order.
[electronic garble]
RHYS: It's all you.
Hey. you got this.
Captain. I'm at a console.
Hacking into shield systems now.
BURNHAM: Good. We should be at
shuttle bay in about five minutes.
Commander Rayner?
All set. Captain.
Soon as shields drop.
we'll get the structure and
all of you out of there.
Commander Stamets is
standing by to jump.
BURNHAM [over comms]: I'll
keep you posted. Burnham out.
All right.
let's run through this again.
No surprises.
Lieutenant Linus. cloak status?
It remains at 100%.
Jemison. Naya.
shields and scans?
Shields are nominal. Commander.
Still no evidence of any
scans from the dreadnaught.
They don't seem to
know we're here.
Good. Gallo. what
about tactical?
All systems armed and ready.
Tilly. what's the
latest on Tahal?
TILLY: Mr. Saru says she and her
fleet are less than two hours away.
Hopefully. we'll be long gone
with the Progenitors'
technology by then.
We'd better be.
Excuse me. sir. um.
respectfully. the pacing.
you're making everybody nervous.
You can sit in the
captain's chair. you know.
If I felt like it. I would.
Captain Burnham. she
trusts you to lead us.
We all do. and
it's bit of a road
to get there. but we
really. um. we really do.
You know why I asked you serve
as my Number One
today. Lieutenant?
No. sir. Actually. I don't.
It's because you're
smart as hell.
you're a good leader.
and if we were stuck
in a foxhole together.
I wouldn't kill you.
That is. unless you
gave me more of that
warm and fuzzy encouragement
that I don't need.
Shuttle bay's through there.
You think these replicated
suits will get us through?
One way to find out.
Go ahead.
[alarm blares]
[electronic garble]
How many times must I remind you
to complete your
clearance forms?
[electronic garble]
You said you turned
them in for me.
How dare you accuse me?
BREEN SOLDIER: All
right. that's enough.
BURNHAM: If you say so.
[grunting]
BOOK: Well played.
BURNHAM: You. too.
Let's take care of these
guys and get to work.
BOOK: We'll hide
'em over here.
[electronic garble]
They're sending someone inside.
BOOK: What the hell is that?
[screams]
BURNHAM: Some kind of portal.
That has to be what leads
to the Progenitors' tech.
BOOK: Damn it. they put
up a quarantine field.
I'm gonna have to take that down
if we want to secure
the transpo-lock.
There.
Field draws power
from that box. Cut the
power. field goes down.
BURNHAM: I guess I'm joining
the science division.
You... you're on
distraction duty.
- BOOK: What?
- BURNHAM: Mm-hmm.
[electronic garble]
BOOK: Uh...
Hello.
BREEN SOLDIER: Hello?
BOOK: You excited
for the sarkaress?
BREEN SOLDIER: After
our Scion is reborn.
we'll hold the
greatest sarkaress yet.
BOOK: [chuckles] Oh.
yeah. No question.
Hey. so. um...
Do you know who
you're going with?
[electronic garble]
maybe we could. uh...
Wow. Flirting. Bold move.
BREEN SOLDIER: You wish
to be one of my sarkmates?
Sure. Why not?
BREEN SOLDIER: Very well.
I shall prepare a space
for you in the oil bath.
Hurry up. Michael.
this is getting weird.
BURNHAM: Are you sure you
don't want me to slow down?
Try to get you that oil bath?
BURNHAM [over comms]:
Rhys. Adira. how are things
going on the bridge?
- [console beeps]
- ADIRA: Got it.
- Shields ready to drop. Captain.
- BURNHAM: Good work.
I'll tell you when.
What do you mean they
couldn't pull him back out?
The cable was
bonded to the floor.
they saw what
happened last time.
The force of it was too great.
- Wherever it leads. it seems...
- [electronic garble]
What are they saying?
There are guards
missing from their post
outside shuttle bay.
I thought your troops were
better trained than that.
They are.
Put the shuttle bay
in full lockdown.
All credentials checked.
Captain. I've got bad news.
[alarm blaring]
This is gonna be a problem.
I am told that your
shuttle is ready.
I had ordered all relevant
intelligence files
on Primarch Tahal to
be transferred to you.
I hope some of it
will prove useful.
Uh. yes. Uh...
It already has. I just
finished reviewing it.
You have only just returned.
I'm sorry you must depart again.
I know you did not want this.
The list you offered to
draw up at the meeting...
I understand your desire
to protect me. However...
The intent of the list
was to protect the mission.
While I do worry for
your safety. of course.
it is of critical importance.
I feared you may hesitate
to take the necessary risks.
as we are so close
to our wedding.
Surely you know I would never
allow personal considerations
to interfere with my
professional responsibilities.
Not consciously. perhaps. but...
Vulcans are not the only species
capable of choosing
logic and duty
over emotion.
Fair point.
We have both chosen
lives of service.
To balance that with
our love for one another
will never be easy.
But at least...
we can face that
struggle together.
It would be illogical
to ask that you
promise to return.
So. instead.
I only ask that you will try.
I shall see you when I return.
[alarm blaring]
[electronic garble]
BOOK: They're gonna
find us any second.
I just need a few more minutes
to get the containment
field down.
BOOK: We don't have
a few more minutes.
We need that field down now.
I have an idea. Captain.
It's risky. but...
BURNHAM [over comms]: Whatever
it is. I trust you. Just do it.
Okay. then.
Nothing grabs the attention
like an unwelcome guest.
Especially one that
they think is dead.
Lieutenant Christopher.
hail the dreadnaught.
Aye. Commander.
I'm heading down
to the shuttle bay.
Tell them I want to see
the crew personally.
Moll. wait. We are being hailed
- by Discovery.
- What?
Are you sure?
Yes. It is them.
They survived.
Put us on alert.
Weapons armed.
You heard her!
On alert. all weapon
systems armed now.
[alarm blaring]
Answer the hail.
This is Commander Rayner
of the USS Discovery.
MOLL [over comms]:
Where's the captain?
She's dead.
You and your Breen friends
killed her in your attack.
[electronic garble]
BOOK: Whatever he's
doing. it's working.
BURNHAM: Good. Stay alert. Let
me know if anything changes.
Whatever happened.
it wasn't me or us.
It was Ruhn.
but he's dead now. too.
and I have the
Progenitors' tech.
So we have nothing
more to talk about.
Yes. we do. You need our help.
MOLL: With what. exactly?
Primarch Tahal.
She's on her way.
Wants your dreadnaught
and every soldier on it.
Check long-range scans.
You can run. but
she'll track you.
and keep tracking you.
Believe me. I know.
She won't give up. but
if you turn yourself in.
give us the technology. the
Federation will protect you.
I don't need you
or your Federation.
Shit.
Captain. how close are you?
BURNHAM: Almost done.
Rhys. Tal.
what's Moll doing?
She's leaving. What
does that mean?
Nothing good.
Captain. you're
running out of time.
BURNHAM: [grunts] Got it.
Commander. stand
by. We're attaching
the transport lock now.
- [weapons firing]
- BURNHAM: Oh!
MOLL: Transpo-lock. Clever.
Lose your helmets.
MOLL: Hmm.
Not so dead after all.
Commander Rhys. Ensign
Tal. it's Discovery.
Do you read?
Yes. sir.
Bravo Team has been captured.
- Is your position secure?
- RHYS: So far.
- Yeah.
- RAYNER: We need to beam you all out of there.
Prepare to lower shields.
What about the structure?
RAYNER: We'll have to find
another way to get it.
Stand by. Captain's
comms are still live.
She'll give us a sign
when she's ready.
MOLL: Respect where it's due.
How'd you get on board?
A good courier never
reveals their secrets.
Cute.
Did your "mentor"
teach you that?
BURNHAM: Listen. Moll.
- we know you want to get L'ak back.
- MOLL: Don't.
Don't you say his name.
Throw them in the brig
and take us to warp
before Tahal gets here.
Jemison. get ready to transport.
BURNHAM: Wait. wait.
I haven't gotten to
get my grum of osikod.
as the saying goes.
Osikod.
It's a message. She's...
sending me a message.
BURNHAM: Remember
when we first met?
When I was hanging off
the side of your ship.
What about it?
Well. I knew you wouldn't stop.
but neither would I.
And the difference is.
when I thought I was gone...
your shields were fried.
I was flying out
there all alone.
out in space...
I always knew my crew
would come for me.
Just like they'll
come for us now.
whatever you do.
Good talk.
Throw them in the brig.
We'll drop you off somewhere
once we're in the clear.
I know what she wants us to do.
- I definitely don't.
- RAYNER: Ensign Tal.
stand by to lower
shields on my mark.
- We're gonna need access to that shuttle bay.
- What?
RAYNER: Commander Stamets. you
have two minutes to figure out
how to rip through the
shuttle bay containment field
without destroying
ourselves in the process.
- STAMETS: On it. Commander.
- Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
If you do that. you're gonna
blast everything in there
out into space. including
Michael and Book.
Exactly. and then we beam them
and the structure on board
the Discovery. That's her plan.
Oh. holy shnoodle.
Red alert. Decloak.
set course for the
Breen shuttle bay.
And start firing with
everything we've got.
I just heard. Are we
really doing this?
Apparently. But I-I
think I've got a way.
as long as shields hold.
[grunting]
BURNHAM: Come on!
We just lost torpedo bay seven.
Gallo. keep firing.
Don't let up.
Jemison. what's our status?
We're-we're okay for now.
but we can't take
many more direct hits.
Stamets. time's up.
How do we do this?
Okay. uh. i-if we
fly at full impulse.
tilted down 35.2 degrees
with. uh. modulating shields
concentrated on
the deflector dish.
we can pierce the
containment field
and still maintain
structural integrity.
Do you actually
think it'll work?
Math doesn't lie.
We're gonna get Adira out.
We'll get them all out.
- [grunts. panting]
- [gasps]
How much longer. Rayner?
- 90 seconds to impact.
- BURNHAM: We'll try to hold them off that long.
As soon as that structure
gets blown into space.
- grab it with a tractor beam.
- Aye. Commander.
RAYNER: Tal. drop shields now.
- Done.
- [alarm blaring]
RHYS: Heads up.
guards coming our way.
ADIRA: What do we do?
RHYS: Stay put. I got this.
[grunts]
RHYS: Discovery.
get us out of here.
[electronic garble]
They're going to ram us.
So they can send it...
"out in space."
- I have to go in there.
- Wait.
You do not know what is inside.
If I can't bring L'ak back.
I might as well be dead.
- RAYNER: Ready to beam you. Captain.
- Not yet.
She's gonna go in. Cover me.
Moll. wait!
[grunts]
[exhale echoing]
Michael!
♪
BOOK: Commander. you have to
grab that. Michael is in there.
- She went into the portal.
- What?
Jemison. lock on.
Engage tractor beam.
It's moving too fast.
There's too much debris.
Asha. get us closer. Tilly.
scan the portal.
What's it telling us?
TILLY: No. sh...
No. there's no sign
of her. She's just...
- She's just gone.
- No.
She's not.
She's alive.
I know it.
Listen up.
Our captain is in there.
The Progenitors'
tech is in there.
We're getting them both back.
Failure...
not an option.
All right.
Let's do this.
Captioning sponsored by CBS
Captioned by Media Access
Group at WGBH access.wgbh.org
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-